https://www.ted.com/talks/giles_duley_when_a_reporter_becomes_the_story

00:00
Good morning, everyone. When I was first asked to do a TED Talk, I Googled to try and find out a little bit more about, you know, how it felt to be giving one. And one of the first things I read was a speaker in the States saying that she felt fine until she came onstage, and then she saw the timer ticking down.


00:22
(Laughter)


00:23
And it reminded her of a bomb. I was thinking, "That's the last thing I need."


00:28
(Laughter)


00:30
(Applause)


00:35
Anyway, it's a great privilege to be here. I think it's a bit of a joke for an editor of a paper to choose a photographer to open a speaking event.


00:43
(Laughter)


00:44
We're not renowned for our words, and I spent the last 40 years hiding behind a camera so I didn't have to speak. But I'm here today, and what I want to talk about are stories and the importance of stories to me and, I think, the importance of stories to everybody. I'm sure today you'll hear a lot of stories and, by listening to other people's stories, I think we can learn about the world, about other people and get a better understanding. So I want to talk about three stories that I've done as a photographer, and how they've inspired me, and how, in my life, I've become a part of the stories that I document myself.


01:19
As John said, I was a fashion photographer and music photographer for 10 years. I enjoyed it, I had a lot of fun, but always wanted to do something more with my work. And storytelling was always something I wanted to do. So 10 years ago, I set out to travel the world, to go and photograph other people in their situations and to record their stories, to bring them back, so that other people might understand. But this didn't happen overnight. When I worked as a music photographer and a fashion photographer, I always had this nagging feeling that there was something missing, that I wasn't quite using my skills productively. And it may seem very obvious, the link, now, but at the time, I couldn't really work out how could I use my photography to do something useful. So I gave up photography. I walked away from it completely and decided to do care work.


02:10
As a care worker, I started looking after a young guy called Nick. Nick has autism, very severe autism. But over the years of looking after him, we became very close friends. I would give him a 24-hour care, we would go off and do things from swimming, going for walks ... all sorts. Bit by bit, though, as I got to know him better, I realized that his story wasn't being told. He self-harmed, he would punch himself quite a lot in the face. And nobody really got to see that. So this is Nick. He used to describe his life as living downstairs at a party. He said he could hear the party in the kitchen, but he felt like he was always trapped in the basement, in his own little world, wanting to be part of the party but not able to walk upstairs. So I documented his life. I started to photograph it, not really with any intention of doing anything with the pictures, but just as a way of recording.


03:11
And as I started doing that, I realized that I could tell somebody's story through my photographs. As I said, Nick would self-harm. He would punch himself in the face. And nobody really got to see that. As we built up a kind of closer friendship, he finally would allow me to actually see him doing this and to document it. It was a moment of trust. The social services were not particularly good at helping Nick, and they said that he wouldn't be self-harming as bad as we said.


03:48
So one day, I took a photograph of when he'd really been self-harming. We took that to the social services, and their reaction was immediately incredibly different, and they managed to get a lot of help. And I'm glad to say now, eight years later, I actually spoke to Nick last night, and he wanted to let me know that he was feeling a lot better, and he doesn't do the self-harming anymore. And in some small way, I hope that the photographs was a part of that process. The main thing it did is it inspired me to go out with my camera and to tell other people's stories.


04:24
One of the stories I did was in Kutupalong, on the border of Burma and Bangladesh. Here, the Rohingyas refugees have been left, pretty much to rot, for over 20 years. This is a picture of the unofficial camp. At the top, you can see the official UN camp. All these huts are the unofficial camps. Literally, the raw sewage runs through the camp. The people there have been forgotten, so I thought it was important to go and document their stories. So I arranged with the village elder; the people would come along the next day, and I would take portraits of all these people and record their stories. So as the time went on, I turned up in the morning, I put a big, white sheet up, and I started to photograph these people.


05:13
Suddenly, though, everything got a bit out of control, and, although it was still dawn, we were filled in this small little compound we had made with literally hundreds of people turning up with ailments and diseases and just ... a hopeless situation. And that's exactly what their situation is -- helpless. A child with a tumor that nobody helped, who was slowly suffocating. I got in a bit of a panic, because these people were coming up to me, desperate, and I was trying to explain to the village elder that I was not a doctor, and I couldn't help these people. And the village elder turned to me and he said, "No, it's really important; these people know you're not a doctor, but at least somebody is now telling their story, and somebody is recording what is happening to them." And it was a good moment for me. It was a realization that maybe it was worthwhile going off and doing these things.


06:09
Another story that inspired me was in Odessa, in Ukraine. I was documenting a bunch of street kids. I ended up actually living with them in a squat, which I can say was an experience. Many late nights of vodka-fueled violence with me sitting in the corner with my bag, just going, "When was this a good idea?"


06:29
(Laughter)


06:31
I would say it's moments like that when I think, "Why did I leave the fashion world?"


06:35
But they were great kids, and on the last day, they took me down to the sea for a sort of trip, a sort of farewell. There they are, drinking vodka. And then Serge, who was the oldest and the most violent -- he'd just got out of the prison for stabbing somebody -- comes and puts his arm around me and says, "We go swimming." Now, I have to say, I had a "Lonely Planet" guide to Ukraine and in it, it gave some advice. And in that advice was, "Do not talk to the street kids, at no point leave your baggage unattended and in all counts, do not go swimming."


07:11
(Laughter)


07:13
So I was like, "I don't know if this is a good idea." Serge has got his arm around me. I'm like, "OK." So there I am.


07:21
(Laughter)


07:22
I literally handed all my cameras, all my equipment, to these street kids. And they took it. It's kind of funny to know, if you look in the background, you can see the other street kids who didn't get in the water go, "Why would you get in that water?"


07:35
But one of the little kids, Lilic, he was the one who had taken my camera, and he started taking photographs. He was really excited by this camera. And we talked a lot about how I was going to get him a camera and would return and we could start to teach him photography. He had a real eye for things. That's him, there. That was taken on the last evening I was there. I'd been staying there, but that night, I left to go and collect my things. And when I came back in the morning, he was dead. He had taken a lot of pills and a lot of vodka. And he had passed out in the night and didn’t recover. Again, it was another reminder of maybe why I should record these people's stories: because their lives are important, and it's important for me to document them.


08:18
Then in February of last year, when I was on patrol in Afghanistan, I stepped on an IED. That's me down there, somewhere. I became part of the story. At first, I was devastated by what had happened, obviously. I thought my work was over, I thought -- everything didn't make sense to me. And then I realized: I never set out to Congo, to Angola, to Bangladesh to take photographs. I went to those places because I wanted to make some kind of change, and photography happened to be my tool.


08:55
And then I became aware that my body was, in many ways, a living example of what war does to somebody. And I realized I could use my own experience, my own body, to tell that story. And it was also by looking back at the other people I've documented. I thought of Nick, and I thought of his resilience. I thought of the Rohingyas and the fact that they have no hope. I thought of Lilic and a lost life. And in fact, it was the stories that I've documented that inspired me to get through the last year, to survive, to get back up on my new legs and to be able to come and tell their stories, but also my own story.


09:37
So I did a self-portrait, because I wanted to show everybody what a bomb does to somebody, but also to show that losing your limbs doesn't end your life; that you can have what people say is disability, but not be disabled; that you can be able to do anything if you put your mind to it and have belief in it. It's strange, but in many ways I look at where I was a year ago, and I look at where I am now, and I realize that I have a lot of things I didn't have then. I wouldn't be sitting here right now if this hadn't happened. I wouldn't have been able to show you those photographs and tell you those stories. I was lucky 10 years ago, when I sat down and I tried to work out what I could do to make a difference in this world. I realized that my photography was a tool and a way to do it.


10:23
I think that's what's really key. It's that we all can be part of that wheel. We can all be cogs in a wheel of change. We can all make a difference. Everybody here has an ability to use something to make a difference to the world. We can all sit in front of the TV and go, "I don't know what to do about it," and forget about it. But the reality is that we can all do something. It might be just writing a letter. It might be standing on a soapbox and talking. It might be just recording somebody's story and telling it to somebody else. But every single one of us here, if we want to make a difference, we can, an there is nothing to stop us. And we all have our own experiences that we can use as well.


11:02
So really, that's all I wanted to talk about today. I just wanted to say that life goes on all around the world. People are going through terrible things. Everyone of us is going through our own terrible experience. But if we share those and we talk about stories, then we can inspire each other to get through our own bad experiences. I know that the people I've recorded have gotten me to this point. And I hope in some small way, the stories I've been able to tell you will help you get through things. And in turn, I hope you will use your experiences to help others.


11:35
Thank you very much.


11:36
(Applause)

https://www.ted.com/talks/melissa_garren_the_sea_we_ve_hardly_seen

00:00
In the next ten minutes, we will immerse ourselves in an amazing and beautiful marine world that's very often overlooked. I'd like to take you on a journey into the sea, looking at it from the perspective of its smallest inhabitants: the microbes. My goal is that after this short journey, you'll share my amazement at how deeply connected our lives are to these microscopic creatures and also perhaps my concern that these relationships are often neglected when it comes to making decisions and policies about our oceans.


00:34
When you look out on a clear blue ocean, you're actually gazing at a microbial soup full of vibrant life. What you see here are marine bacteria buzzing about and exploring other members of the marine food web. To emphasize how small this world really is, I've added a white line to most of my slides that shows you the thickness of a single strand of human hair -- very tiny. An average teaspoon of clean seawater has five million bacteria and 50 million viruses in it. If I were to scoop up two gallons of seawater, there would be more bacteria in those two gallons than there are people on this planet. Take just a moment and think about how many gallons might make up an ocean. Or maybe I've already made your stomach turn, as you think of all of the seawater we've each accidentally swallowed over the years. But luckily, we rarely get sick from that seawater, because most marine microbes are working for us, not against us.


01:35
One of my favorite examples is that they provide half of the oxygen we breathe. In middle school, we all learn to thank the trees. And admittedly, they may be more huggable than the microbes. But it turns out that land plants only create a quarter of the oxygen we breathe. Another quarter comes from macroalgae like kelp and a full 50% from the microbes. Take a deep breath in. Thank the trees. Take another deep breath in. Thank the macroalgae. Your next two breaths -- tip your hats to the microbes.


02:10
This picture is of a bacterium that happens to be the single most abundant photosynthesizer on our planet. It's called, "Prochlorococcus," and this is oceans' oxygen-producing powerhouse and, I might argue, one of the most amazing discoveries of recent marine microbiology. We didn't know it existed until 1988. All of human history has depended on this little microbe for the oxygen they breathe every day, no matter where or when they lived. And we've only been aware of that relationship for a mere 24 years. I find that astounding. How many more critical relationships are out there that we have yet to discover?


02:51
I see our relationship with marine microbes as parallel in many ways to the relationship we have with microbes in our gut. We've all experienced the wrath of unhappy gut microbes at one point or another, perhaps food poisoning or tainted water. But we may be less aware of the connection we have with marine microbes and the physical discomforts we can feel when those communities change. As an extreme example: the disease cholera is caused by a bacterium that thrives in the ocean. So while most marine microbes are indeed helping us, there do remain plenty that are not. Our relationship with the ocean, much like our gut, is dependent on the right balance of microbes. The old phrase, "You are what you eat" applies to our ocean microbes as well.


03:38
To give you a sense of what an overfed ocean may look like, here are two examples of me sampling seawater. On your left, it's a clean coral reef, and on your right is a nearly dead coral reef that has a very intense fish farming operation in the waters there. You'll notice I'm only smiling in one of these two pictures, and in the other one my dive buddy had to be a whole lot closer to capture that image. So if we were to take a drop of seawater from each of these samples and put it under the microscope, this is what the bacteria and viral communities would look like. So again, clean reef on your left, fish farm reef on your right. As we all have had a feeling of discomfort from imbalanced gut microbes, a fish swimming through a part of the ocean that has been overfed in this way -- in this case, by intense aquaculture, but it could be a sewage spill or fertilizer runoff or any number of other sources -- that fish will feel the physical discomforts of the ocean microbes being out of whack. There may be less oxygen present, there may be more pathogens there, and there may be toxins produced by some of these microbes. The bottom line is that from their tiny-scale existence, these tiny microbes have a very large-scale power to control how our ocean smells, how it tastes, how it feels and how it looks.


05:01
If you take one idea away from my talk today, let it be this: we have an incredibly important relationship with these marine microbes that have very large-scale consequences, and we're just barely beginning to understand what that relationship looks like and how it may be changing. Just as a physician will have trouble curing a disease of unknown cause, we will have similar trouble restoring ocean health without understanding the microbes better. They are the invisible engineers that control the chemistry of the ocean and therefore, what creatures can live there, whether or not it's safe for us to swim there and all of the other characteristics we sense with our eyes, noses and taste buds. And the more we pay attention to these small but very numerous members of the ocean, the more we're learning they do indeed respond to human actions, such as in this fish farm example.


05:50
Now, as the past few slides about coral reefs may have suggested, I do indeed spend much of my time as a researcher thinking about human-microbe interactions, specifically on coral reefs. It turns out, we're not alone in having our own protective community of microbes. Corals, along with most other organisms on this planet, have their own protective communities as well. However, rather than keeping theirs on the inside as we do in our gut, they keep theirs on the outside, to protect them from their surroundings So what you're seeing here is a three-dimensional image of a live spot on a living coral with all of its living bacteria, that I took with some exciting technology -- a high-speed laser-scanning confocal microscope. All of the red circles are the symbiotic algae that live inside the coral tissue, turning sunlight and into sugars they both can use, and all of the little blue dots are the protective bacteria. So when I use image analysis software to highlight the outer layer of the coral in white, you can see that there are still some tiny little blue dots above that layer. And those bacteria are sitting in a mucus layer, which is also part of the coral's protective layer.


07:06
From the bigger perspective, I spend my time thinking about these relationships, because too many reefs are going from looking like the picture on your left to the picture on your right. Believe it or not, the picture on your right remains a very popular tourist snorkeling spot on the island of Maui, even though it's lost most of its coral cover over the past decade or so. Corals are getting sick all around the globe at alarming rates, and we really don't know how or why. I see the microbes on the coral reefs, both the good ones and the bad ones, trying to link their micro-scale behaviors to this big picture of: How do we help the reef that looks like the right back towards something that looks more like the left? Or: How do we stop coral disease from spreading?


07:49
Just over a year ago, no one had ever seen a view like this. This video is a prime example of making the invisible visible. We're looking at a side view of the same coral as before, where the protective layer meets the seawater; so, seawater on your right, coral on your left. It's incredibly exciting to me that we can finally see these bacteria in real life, in real time, at their micro scale, and learn how they interact with the world around them. Ecologists all over the world are used to being able to grab a pair of binoculars and go out and observe what their study creatures do each day. But microbial ecologists have desperately needed breakthroughs in technology, such as with this fast confocal, to make similar observations. I work to find ways that cutting-edge technologies like this can help make the unseen seeable, to see marine bacteria in action and learn how they behave. In doing so, we can learn how they respond to our actions and our behaviors and the environment around them in ways that will help us better manage our oceans.


08:55
Another example of how I'm doing this is by using microfluidics to study specifically how pathogens behave in the ocean. The basic idea behind microfluidics is that you can use nanofabrication techniques to recreate or mimic the conditions bacteria experience at their own tiny scale in the ocean. What you see here is a microfluidic chamber on a microscope slide with a microscope lens underneath it. We use high-speed video microscopy to record bacteria behavior. The colored tubing is where bacteria and seawater flow in and out of the device. And it's using a device like this that I recently discovered that a known coral pathogen actually has the ability to sniff around the seawater and hunt for corals. Here's the video of in action. You'll see all of the pathogens which are the tiny green dots on the left start detecting the coral mucus I put on the right side of the channel, and they swim quickly over in that direction and stay there. Up until now, it was thought that a pathogen would need some good luck to find its host in the ocean. But simply by watching and observing, we can learn that these bacteria are very well adapted to seeking out their victims.


10:16
These micro-channels are bringing us closer than ever before to understanding how bacteria navigate that big blue ocean. It turns out that this pathogen can even detect the coral mucus when I dilute it 20,000 fold. So these bacteria are very well adapted to hunting down these corals. I'm currently testing different environmental conditions to see what scenarios make this pathogen more or less capable of hunting corals. By learning more about what triggers the hunt, we should be able to find ways to help slow down or prevent this disease. There's also some evidence that the healthy microbes on the coral can fight off the pathogen if the conditions are right.


11:04
So, one final image of a coral and its healthy bacteria. I hope you've enjoyed this short journey into our microbial oceans and that the next time you look out at the sea, you'll take in a deep breath of fresh ocean air and wonder: What else are all of the unseen microbes doing to keep us and our oceans healthy?


11:22
Thank you.

https://www.ted.com/talks/daniel_schnitzer_inventing_is_the_easy_part

00:01
So, without romanticizing this too much: imagine that you light your home with kerosene and candles every night, and that you do all of your cooking with charcoal. This is how the world's two billion poorest people cook and light their homes every day. This isn't just inconvenient, this is inefficient, it's expensive, it's harmful to human health, harmful to the environment, and it's unproductive. And that's energy poverty.


00:26
So let me give you a couple of examples. I work in Haiti, where about 80% of the population lives in energy poverty. The average household spends 10% of its income on kerosene for lighting – that's an order of magnitude greater than what the average US household spends on electricity to light their homes. The 2008 hurricane season in Haiti caused about one billion dollars in damage. That was a sixth of their GDP. The damage was so severe because the primary energy fuel in Haiti is charcoal, which is made from trees, and has left the country almost completely deforested. Without trees, the country can't absorb heavy rains and massive flooding, as a result. So in the industrialized world, we built walls that protect us from the externalities of our energy use; we can afford to clean up acute environmental disasters; and we can also afford to adapt to chronic conditions like climate change. That's not the case for Haiti. They can't afford this. The only way they're going to lift themselves out of energy poverty is by adapting fuels that are more efficient, that are less expensive, that are better for human health, better for the environment and that are more productive.


01:38
So it turns out that those fuels and technologies exist, and this is an example of that. This is a solar LED lightbulb that we sell for a retail price of about 10 dollars in rural Haiti. That's a payback period of less than three months for the average Haitian household. The prescriptions to solve energy poverty seems pretty straightforward: you develop these technologies that have a great return on investment, and people should be snatching them up. But that's not the case.


02:08
The first time I ever went down to Haiti was in August of 2008, sort of on a whim, and I was fielding surveys in the rural south of the country to assess the extent of energy poverty. And at night, I would go around sometimes and I would speak with the street vendors and see if they were interested in buying these solar LED lamps. One woman who I encountered turned down my offer, and she said, “Mon chéri, c'est trop Cher,” which basically means, “My dear, it's too expensive.” But I tried to explain to her, “Look, this is going to save you a lot of money, and it's going to give you even better light than what you're using now with the kerosene.” So I didn't make the sale, but I did learn a really important lesson, which is that technology, products, were not going to end energy poverty. Instead, access was going to.


02:52
Specifically, there are two types of access that are going to end energy poverty: there's physical access, and there's financial access. So, physical access -- what does that mean? It's very expensive for low-income households in developing countries to reach major centers of commerce. And it's basically impossible for them to order something off Amazon.com. “The last mile” is a phrase that's normally associated with the telecommunications industry. It means that last bit of wire that's necessary to connect the customer to the provider. What we need for ending energy poverty are last-mile retailers that bring these clean energy products to the people. The kerosene and charcoal value chains already figured this out: those fuels are ubiquitous across the entire country. You can go to the most remote village in Haiti and you will find somebody selling kerosene and charcoal.


03:44
So the other type of access: financial. We all know that clean energy products, technologies, tend to be characterized by higher upfront costs, but very low operating costs. And so in the industrialized world, we have very generous subsidies that are specifically designed to bring down those upfront costs. Those subsidies don't exist in Haiti. What they do have is microfinance. But you're going to severely diminish the value proposition of your clean energy product if you expect somebody in Haiti to go out, get a microloan, go back to the retailer, and then buy the clean energy product.


04:19
So the prescription to end energy poverty is much more complicated than simply products. We need to integrate financial access directly into new, innovative distribution models. What does that mean? That means bundling consumer credit with the retailer. This is really easy for Bloomingdale’s to do, but it's not so easy for a rural sales agent in Haiti to do. We need to redirect cash flows that are going now from the diaspora in the United States through Western Union wire transfers in cash directly into clean energy products that can be delivered to or picked up by their friends or family in Haiti.


04:58
So the next time you hear about a technology or product that's going to change the world, be a little bit skeptical. The inventor Dean Kamen, the guy who invented the Segway, a genius by any standards, once said that his job is easy, inventing things is easy, the hard part is the technology dissemination -- it's getting those technologies and products to the people who need it most.


05:22
Thank you.


05:23
(Applause)

https://www.ted.com/talks/scott_summit_beautiful_artificial_limbs

00:02
I'm an industrial designer, which means I create all these cool things from ideas that we surround ourselves with, or in this case, geeky people surround themselves with, for the most part. I have absolutely no background in biology, chemistry or engineering, so bear with me, because I'll be talking about biomedical engineering today.


00:20
(Laughter)


00:21
And please do stay here in the meantime.


00:25
Industrial design is about making lots of things identical. The downside about that is, there's something impersonal about lots of identical things, because when you're trying to design one thing for one person to solve one issue, you can't really do that when you're making things aimed more to a demographic model or to a marketing requirements document, which is what we live by. So I got disheartened by the whole process in general, and went to rethink it and redesign designing altogether, went way back to my early, early design inspirations, and back to about eight years old, and that got me to this guy. Anyone here from MIT knows him or has a tattoo or poster of him somewhere.


01:05
(Laughter)


01:06
Anyone else in the room, just for a hint, he is the engineer of engineers or the designer of designers. He is the guy who made bionics a household word in the form of the polyester-clad Six Million Dollar Man that I grew up with.


01:21
The thing that came from this pop culture show, the real takeaway, was two main things: if you're designing for the person, for a real person, you don't settle for the minimum functional requirements; you see how far beyond that you can go, where the rewards really are way out in the fringe of how far past that document you can go. And if you can nail that, you stand to improve the quality of life for somebody for every moment for the rest of their life. I kind of distilled that down into a design philosophy, and infuse that into the studio that I have now; I'm trying to get everyone to think along these lines. It's not a profound philosophy, but it works for us.


02:01
We work with prosthetic limbs, and the first thing you see about prosthetic limbs is that they are engineering brilliance. They can do amazing things; they can return all kinds of functionality and performance back to somebody's life. But from the vantage of an industrial designer, they're not quite there. What we don't see is the sculpture or the beauty or the individual qualities or the uniqueness or the elegance to them. They are brilliant, mechanical, utilitarian devices. And that's great, except for a lot of people, that doesn't work. People come to our studio all the time, and they have bubble wrap and duct tape, trying to approximate their original form. Or they'll have a gym sock stuffed with other gym socks to try to recreate the shape that once was; and that, to us, is not thriving.


02:50
The body, to us, is not a mechanical entity, where mechanical-only solutions can address them. It's our personal sculpture, our kinematic sculpture. It is our canvas; it represents not just our physicality, but also a lot of our personality as well. So when you're designing for the body, maybe the thing isn't to design for mass production, but to design with the body in mind, to really think about curves instead of hard geometry, or uniqueness instead of identical. The problem is, we're constrained by mass production, which makes a million identical things but can't make one unique, individualized thing. So we scrapped that in the new design process, and we start with the person.


03:28
This is a three-dimensional scanner, and that's what happens when you scan somebody: you get three-dimensional data into your computer. You can take the sound-side limb there, the surviving limb, mirror it over, and from now on, anything in the process will recreate symmetry -- something as personal and as hard to achieve as symmetry in the body. And you create a product that, no matter what, it's going to be as unique as their fingerprint. In fact, our process is incapable of creating two identical things. So we run it through computer modeling, 3D CAD. Here, we actually infuse a lot of the individual's taste and personality into it, everywhere we can, and we three-dimensionally print the results. We call the resulting parts "fairings," because they're named after the panels on a motorcycle that turn it from a mechanical thing into a sculptural thing.


04:16
We tried this on Chad. Chad is a competitive soccer player, lost his leg eight years ago to cancer. You can imagine, it's really tricky to play soccer when you have titanium pipe where there used to be a leg. The resulting parts recreated his shape and deliberately had an aesthetic that look like sporting gear. We wanted it to make it look like he just pulled it out of the gym bag, so it's fairly utilitarian in that regard. Two things happened. One, we expected: his sense of his body came back to him. He was suddenly able to control the ball, to feel the ball, because his body remembered that original shape that he had had up until eight years ago. The other thing, though, is that the other members of the team stopped thinking of him as the amputee on the team. Not that they didn't know, but it stopped becoming a focal point for him. And there is a certain very quiet value in that, we like to believe.


05:10
James lost his leg in a motorcycle crash. And the motorcycle is still a big part of James's personality and style. Check out the tattoo on his forearm. We three-dimensionally printed that into what would be his calf. He has his tattoo, he has his morphology and he has the materials of his motorcycle. And the result is interesting in that you can't really tell at first glance where the motorcycle stops and where James starts. It's kind of a chimera hybrid between the two, and James likes that.


05:41
(Laughter)


05:44
So, we don't ever try to make something look like it could be human. Our whole goal is to be unapologetically man-made, to take what's already there, morphology, and just make it really cool and beautiful, something that somebody can't wait to show the world, because that changes their look. You don't look at him and say, "He's an amputee with a prosthetic." You say, "He's a guy with something really cool going on.


06:06
Deborah wanted her curves back, but she also just wanted what came out of it to be really sexy, which is great for us to hear. We created this lace pattern that lends itself well to 3D printing. We created the first leg, I think, where the lace defines the contour of the leg, instead of the leg giving form to the lace. We switched things over. What I like about this shot is you can see daylight through it. So we're not trying to hide anything; the load-bearing carbon component is totally visible. We're just giving it form and shape and contours that were hers to begin with. We made her another leg that matched her purse, just because we could.


06:47
(Laughter)


06:51
(Applause)


06:56
We made another one where we laser-tattooed the leather, because how cool would it be to be able to change your tattoos out from one minute to the next? Love that. We try to capture as much of somebody's personality as we can.


07:08
This is George. His will be finished next week. This is the raw computer data that we deal with. He's kind of a classic, timeless-type personality, so we did herringbone tweed, but in polished nickel.


07:21
(Laughter)


07:23
And Uve was all too proud to show his tattoos, so we are laser-tattooing those into the leather. Part of it is, yes, we're showing off, because we can do this, but the other part is this connects him to what will be a part of him. That is something really valuable; we believe in that. Tattoos are especially exciting for us. What happens if you take the tattoo, which is a combination of somebody's personal taste and choice, and their morphology, but now, let's say, you remove the person. You get a free-floating tattoo defining their body. So everything we do is about recreating and expressing something that means something to that person, and expressing that through what would be their body, whether it's speed or attitude or bling, whatever it is that captures and suggests them in the best way we can.


08:11
Back to the 3D-printing thing and this whole process: we have a process that lends itself to making one thing per person; it's very individual, and it actually really lends itself well to complexity. So why not just print the entire leg? That's the concept that preceded the work we're doing now. This is a three-dimensionally printed leg. It's symmetric to the other leg. It is made in America, it is a trivially low-carbon footprint to create, curbside recyclable, costs about 4,000 dollars to create, and it is dishwasher-safe.


08:44
(Laughter)


08:46
There's a value to that, too. People don't think about that all the time, but yes, throw it in the dishwasher, it works just great. This was based on the original idea that I could go anywhere in the world with nothing more than a camera and a laptop computer, use the camera as a 3D scanner and create for somebody, in a matter of hours, a very high-quality, three-dimensionally printed leg for a very low cost. The proof of concept works great, we're finding it; we'll get there. Or, we upped the quality of the materials and created this for John. The fun thing with John's leg is that when his fiancee looked at this, she joked and said, "I like that leg better than that leg."


09:22
(Laughter)


09:24
And it's a joke -- she knows full well what he goes through -- but at the same time, there's something very valuable. He turned to us and said, "Nobody says that." He's never heard that in his life. That connected with him very deeply.


09:37
So we like to think that this is a new type of design, where you're turning the original process on its head, where there is a dialogue that forms between the designer and the end user, where the designer relinquishes some of the control -- designers hate doing that -- and instead, is the curator of a process. And the end user relinquishes their body into the process, and their taste. I'd like to think that speaks to a greater change that's happening in the design world altogether; in this case, it's one where products will be evaluated on how well they address the individual. The individual will actually be part of the DNA of the end product itself. We will be evaluating products on how well they address a unique person, instead of a demographic model.


10:24
This all really hit home for us in one of the first legs we did; when Chad here put on the leg, reached down and felt it and thought about it for a while. Then he turned to us and said, "That's the first time I've felt that shape in eight years." We thought about that. And for all the technology and all the nights and energy we put into it, that's all we really wanted to hear.


10:47
Thanks.


10:48
(Applause)

https://www.ted.com/talks/jeffrey_kluger_the_sibling_bond

00:01
TED has already persuaded me to change my life in one small way, by persuading me to change the opening of my speech. I love this idea of engagement. So, when you leave here today, I'm going to ask you to engage or re-engage with some of the most important people in your lives: your brothers and sisters. It can be a profoundly life-affirming thing to do, even if it isn't always easy.


00:29
This is a man named Elliot, for whom things were very difficult. Elliot was a drunk. He spent most of his life battling alcoholism, depression, morphine addiction, and that life ended when he was just 34 years old. What made things harder for Elliot is that his last name was Roosevelt. And he could never quite get past the comparisons with his big brother Teddy, for whom things always seemed to come a little bit easier.


01:01
It wasn't easy being Bobby, either. He was also the sibling of a president. But he adored his brother, Jack. He fought for him, he worked for him. And when Jack died, he bled for him, too. In the years that followed, Bobby would smile, but it seemed labored. He'd lose himself in his work, but it seemed tortured. Bobby's own death, so similar to John's, seems somehow fitting. John Kennedy was robbed of his young life; Bobby seemed almost to have been relieved of his.


01:38
There may be no relationship that effects us more profoundly, that's closer, finer, harder, sweeter, happier, sadder, more filled with joy or fraught with woe than the relationship we have with our brothers and sisters. There's power in the sibling bond. There's pageantry. There's petulance, too, as when Neil Bush, sibling of both a president and a governor, famously griped, "I've lost patience for being compared to my older brothers," as if Jeb and George W were somehow responsible for the savings and loan scandal and the messy divorce that marked Neil in the public eye.


02:27
But more important than all of these things, the sibling bond can be a thing of abiding love. Our parents leave us too early, our spouse and our children come along too late. Our siblings are the only ones who are with us for the entire ride. Over the arc of decades, there may be nothing that defines us and forms us more powerfully than our relationship with our sisters and brothers. It was true for me, it's true for your children and if you have siblings, it's true for you, too.


03:01
This picture was taken when Steve, on the left, was eight years old. I was six, our brother Gary was five and my brother Bruce was four. I will not say what year it was taken. It was not this year.


03:13
(Laughter)


03:15
I open my new book, "The Sibling Effect," on a Saturday morning, not long before this picture was taken, when the three older brothers decided that it might be a very good idea to lock the younger brother in a fuse cabinet in our playroom.


03:29
(Laughter)


03:30
We were, believe it or not, trying to keep him safe.


03:35
Our father was a hotheaded man, somebody who didn't take kindly to being disturbed on Saturday mornings. I don't know what he thought his life would be like on Saturday mornings when he had four sons, ages four years old or younger when the youngest one was born, but they weren't quiet. He did not take to that well. And he would react to being disturbed on a Saturday morning by stalking into the playroom and administering a very freewheeling form of a corporal punishment, lashing out at whoever was within arms' reach. We were by no means battered children but we did get hit, and we found it terrifying.


04:13
So we devised a sort of scatter-and-hide drill.


04:16
(Laughter)


04:17
As soon as we saw or heard the footsteps coming, Steve, the oldest, would wriggle under the couch, I would dive into the closet in the playroom, Gary would dive into a window-seat toy chest, but not before we closed Bruce inside the fuse box. We told him it was Alan Shepard's space capsule, and that somehow made it work better.


04:39
(Laughter)


04:41
I dare say my father was never fooled by this ruse. And it was only in later years that I began to think perhaps it wasn't a good idea to squeeze a four-year-old up against a panel of old-style, un-screwable high-voltage fuses.


04:56
(Laughter)


04:57
But my brothers and I, even through those unhappy times, came through them, with something that was clear and hard and fine: a primal appreciation for the bond we shared. We were a unit -- a loud, messy brawling, loyal, loving, lasting unit. We felt much stronger that way than we ever could as individuals. And we knew that as our lives went on, we could always be able to call on that strength.


05:31
We're not alone. Until 15 years ago, scientists didn't really pay much attention to the sibling bond. And with good reason: you have just one mother, you have just one father if you do marriage right, you have one spouse for life. Siblings can claim none of that uniqueness. They're interchangeable, fungible, a kind of household commodity. Parents set up shop and begin stocking their shelves with inventory, the only limitation being sperm, egg and economics.


05:59
(Laughter)


06:01
As long as you can keep breathing, you may as well keep stocking. Now, nature is perfectly happy with that arrangement, because our primal directive here is to get as many of our genes as possible into the next generation.


06:15
Animals wrestle with these same issues, too, but they have a more straightforward way of dealing with things. A crested penguin that has laid two eggs will take a good look at them and boot the smaller one out of the nest, the better to focus her attentions on the presumably heartier chick in the bigger shell. A black eagle will allow all of her chicks to hatch and then stand back while the bigger ones fight it out with the little ones, typically ripping them to ribbons and then settling back to grow up in peace. Piglets, cute as they are, are born with a strange little outward set of pointing teeth, that they use to jab at one another as they compete for the choicest nursing spots.


06:59
The problem for scientists was that this whole idea of siblings as second-class citizens never really seemed to hold up. After the researchers had learned all they could from the relationships in the family, mothers and other relationships, they still came up with some temperamental dark matter that was pulling at us, exerting a gravity all its own. And that could only be our siblings.


07:29
Humans are no different from animals. After we are born, we do whatever we can to attract the attention of our parents, determining what our strongest selling points are and marketing them ferociously. Someone's the funny one, someone's the pretty one, someone's the athlete, someone's the smart one. Scientists call this "deidentification." If my older brother is a high-school football player -- which, if you saw my older brother, you'd know he was not -- I could become a high-school football player, too and get at most 50 percent of the applause in my family for doing that. Or, I could become student council president or specialize in the arts and get 100 percent of the attention in that area.


08:19
Sometimes parents contaminate the deidentification process, communicating to their kids subtly or not, that only certain kinds of accomplishments will be applauded in the home. Joe Kennedy was famous for this, making it clear to his nine children that they were expected to compete with one another in athletics and were expected to win, lest they be made to eat in the kitchen with the help, rather than in the dining room with the family. It's no wonder that scrawny second-born Jack Kennedy fought so hard to compete with his fitter firstborn brother, Joe, often at his peril, at one point, engaging in a bicycle race around the house that resulted in a collision costing John 28 stitches. Joe walked away essentially unharmed.


09:10
Parents exacerbate this problem further when they exhibit favoritism, which they do overwhelmingly, no matter how much they admit it. A study I cite in this TIME magazine covering in the book "The Sibling Effect," found 70 percent of fathers and 65 percent of mothers exhibit a preference for at least one child. And keep in mind here -- the keyword is "exhibit." The remaining parents may simply be doing a better job of concealing things.


09:41
(Laughter)


09:43
I like to say that 95 percent of all parents have a favorite, five percent are lying about it. The exception is my wife and me. Honestly, we do not have a favorite.


09:55
(Laughter)


09:57
It's not parents' fault that they harbor feelings of favoritism. And here, too, our natural wiring is at work. Firstborns are the first products on the familial assembly line. Parents typically get two years of investing dollars, calories and so many other resources in them, so that by the time the second born comes along, the firstborn is already ... it's what corporations call "sunk costs," you don't want to disinvest in this one and launch the R&amp;D on the new product.


10:28
(Laughter)


10:30
So what we begin to do is say, "I'm going to lean to the Mac OS X and let the Mac OS XI come out in a couple of years." So we tend to lean in that direction.


10:39
(Laughter)


10:41
But there are other forces at work, too. One of the same studies I looked at both here and in the book found that, improbably, the most common favorite for a father is the last-born daughter. The most common favorite for a mother is the firstborn son. Now, this isn't Oedipal; never mind what the Freudians would have told us a hundred years ago. And it's not just that fathers are habitually wrapped around the fingers of their little girls, though I can tell you that, as the father of two girls, that part definitely plays a role. Rather, there is a certain reproductive narcissism at work. Your opposite-gender kids can never resemble you exactly. But if somehow they can resemble you temperamentally, you'll love them all the more. As the result, the father who is a businessman will just melt at the idea of his MBA daughter with a tough-as-nails worldview. The mother who is a sensitive type will go gooey over her son the poet.


11:47
(Laughter)


11:49
Birth order, another topic I covered for TIME, and another topic I cover in the book, plays out in other ways as well. Long before scientists began looking at this, parents noticed that there are certain temperamental templates associated with all birth rankings: the serious, striving firstborn; the caught-in-a-thicket's middle born; the wild child of a last born. And once again, when science did crack this field, they found out mom and dad are right.


12:20
Firstborns across history have tended to be bigger and healthier than later borns, in part, because of the head start they got on food in an area in which it could be scarce. Firstborns are also vaccinated more reliably and tend to have more follow-up visits to doctors when they get sick. And this pattern continues today. This IQ question is, sadly -- I can say this as a second-born -- a very real thing. Firstborns have a three-point IQ advantage over second borns and second borns have a 1.5 IQ advantage over later borns, partly because of the exclusive attention firstborns get from mom and dad, and partly because they get a chance to mentor the younger kids. All of this explains why firstborns are likelier to be CEOs, they are likelier to be senators, they are likelier to be astronauts, and they are likelier to earn more than other kids are.


13:15
Last borns come into the world with a whole different set of challenges. The smallest and weakest cubs in the den, they're at the greatest risk of getting eaten alive, so they have to develop what are called "low-power skills" -- the ability to charm and disarm, to intuit what's going on in someone else's head, the better to duck the punch before it lands.


13:37
(Laughter)


13:38
They're also flat-out funnier, which is another thing that comes in handy, because a person who's making you laugh is a very hard person to slug.


13:47
(Laughter)


13:49
It's perhaps no coincidence that over the course of history, some of our greatest satirists -- Swift, Twain, Voltaire, Colbert --


14:01
(Laughter)


14:03
are either the last borns or among the last in very large families.


14:09
Most middle borns don't get quite as sweet a deal. I think of us as the flyover states. We are --


14:16
(Laughter)


14:19
we're the ones who fight harder for recognition in the home. We're the ones who are always raising our hands while someone else at the table is getting called on. We're the ones who tend to take a little longer to find their direction in life. And there can be self-esteem issues associated with that, notwithstanding the fact that I've been asked to do TED, so I feel much better about these things right now.


14:42
(Laughter)


14:43
But the upside for middle borns is that they also tend to develop denser and richer relationships outside the home. But that advantage comes also from something of a disadvantage, simply because their needs weren't met as well in the home.


14:59
The feuds in the playroom that play out over favoritism, birth order and so many other issues are as unrelenting as they seem. In one study I cite in the book, children in the two-to-four age group engage in one fight every 6.3 minutes, or 9.5 fights an hour. That's not fighting -- that's performance art.


15:25
(Laughter)


15:26
That's extraordinary.


15:28
One reason for this is that there are a lot more people in your home than you think there are, or at least a lot more relationships. Every person in your house has a discrete one-on-one relationship with every other person, and those pairings or dyads add up fast. In a family with two parents and two kids, there are six dyads: Mom has a relationship with child A and B, Dad has a relationship with child A and B. There's the marital relationship, and there is the relationship between the kids themselves. The formula for this looks very chilly but it's real. K equals the number of people in your household, and X equals the number of dyads. In a five-person family, there are ten discrete dyads. The eight-person Brady Bunch -- never mind the sweetness here -- there were 28 dyads in that family. The original Kennedy family with nine kids had 55 different relationships. And Bobby Kennedy, who grew up to have 11 children of his own, had a household with a whopping 91 dyads. This overpopulation of relationships makes fights unavoidable.


16:46
And far and away the biggest trigger for all sibling fights is property. Studies have found that over 95 percent of the fights among small children concern somebody touching, playing with, looking at the other person's stuff.


17:02
(Laughter)


17:03
This in its own way is healthy if it's very noisy, and the reason is that small children come into the world with absolutely no control. They are utterly helpless. The only way they have of projecting their very limited power is through the objects they can call their own. When somebody crosses that very erasable line, they're going to go nuts, and that's what happens.


17:30
Another very common casus belli among children is the idea of fairness, as any parent who hears 14 times a day, "But that's unfair!" can tell you. In a way this is good, too, though. Kids are born with a very innate sense of right and wrong, of a fair deal versus an unfair one, and this teaches them powerful lessons. Do you want to know how powerfully encoded fairness is in the human genome? We process that phenomenon through the same lobe in our brain that processes disgust, meaning we react to the idea of somebody being cheated the same way we react to putrefied meat.


18:13
(Laughter)


18:14
Any wonder that this fellow, Bernie Madoff, is unpopular?


18:22
All of these dramas played out day to day, moment to moment, serve as a real-time, total-immersion exercise for life. Siblings teach each other conflict avoidance and conflict resolution, when to stand up for themselves, when to stand down; they learn love, loyalty, honesty, sharing, caring, compromise, the disclosure of secrets and much more important, the keeping of confidences.


18:55
I listen to my young daughters -- aren’t they adorable? -- I listen to my young daughters talking late into the night, the same way my parents, no doubt, listened to my brothers and me talking, and sometimes I intervene, but usually I don't. They're part of a conversation I am not part of, nobody else in the world is part of, and it's a conversation that can and should go on for the rest of their lives. From this will come a sense of constancy, a sense of having a permanent traveling companion, somebody with whom they road-tested life before they ever had to get out and travel it on their own.


19:34
Brothers and sisters aren't the sine qua non of a happy life; plenty of adult sibling relationships are fatally broken and need to be abandoned for the sanity of everybody involved. And only-children, throughout history, have shown themselves to be creatively, brilliantly capable of getting their socialization and comradeship skills through friends, through cousins, through classmates. But having siblings and not making the most of those bonds is, I believe, folly of the first order. If relationships are broken and are fixable, fix them. If they work, make them even better. Failing to do so is a little like having a thousand acres of fertile farmland and never planting it. Yes, you can always get your food at the supermarket, but think what you're allowing to lie fallow. Life is short, it's finite, and it plays for keeps. Siblings may be among the richest harvests of the time we have here.


20:39
Thank you.


20:40
(Applause)

https://www.ted.com/talks/lucianne_walkowicz_look_up_for_a_change

00:00
The sky is inherently democratic. It's accessible, in principle, anyway, by anyone, everywhere, just simply by the act of looking up. But like so many beautiful things around us, it's slipping away from us, and we haven't even noticed, because we're honestly not really looking. So what do we look at instead? Well, we look at our phones, we look at our computers, we look at screens of all kinds. And honestly, we rarely even take the trouble to look up enough to see each other, let alone taking that next step to looking up at the actual sky. Now, there's a tendency to think that the loss of our dark night skies is the inevitable outcome of progress, change, technology. And you know, that's just simply not true. Later on, I'll tell you why.


00:50
But first, I want to tell you about my experience of the dark night sky. I never saw a truly dark night sky until I was 15. I was here, in Arizona. I was on a road trip; I pulled over somewhere. I have no idea where I was, except I know what state. And I looked up, and the sky was just filled with an impossible number of stars. You see, I'm from New York City, and in New York, you can see the moon, you can see a couple of stars. More often than not, they turn out to be airplanes when they land.


01:25
(Laughter)


01:26
But there's really not much else.


01:27
As a result, most of my colleagues who are astronomers spent at least part of their youth looking up at the sky in their backyard. I never really had that experience, and, as a result, I'm really disappointing on camping trips. I don't really know many constellations. The ones I do know, you probably know them, too. But I'll never forget that experience of the first time I saw the dark night sky. And I was just flabbergasted at how many stars there were. And I felt tiny. Then I also felt like, "Where's this been hiding this whole time? Who's been hiding this sky from me?"


02:08
Of course, the answer is obvious if you think about it or if you look at the picture on the left, where you're seeing the same neighborhood taken during a blackout versus on an ordinary night. You can't see the stars if you drown them out with light. Take a look at our planet. This is our planet from space. Unlike stars, which are hot and glow invisible light so we can see them, our planet is, astronomically speaking, pretty cold. So it doesn't really glow. When you see the planet looking like a blue-green marble the way it does in this picture, you're seeing it because the sunlight is reflecting off of it, and that's why you can see the oceans, the clouds, the land. So if the sun wasn't shining on it, we wouldn't be able to see the earth, right? Or would we?


02:59
This is our earth at night, and it is one of the most striking examples of how we have affected our planet on a global scale. You can see light spidering out across the globe everywhere. Now, of course, there are broad expanses of ocean that are still dark, and in many underdeveloped areas there's still darkness. But you'll notice that this is a pretty global effect. We tend to think, when we think of places being lit up, of very extreme examples -- Times Square, the Vegas Strip. But really what that picture shows you is that it's not just these extreme examples, it's anywhere that uses outdoor lighting. This tends to be a really dramatic effect on the ground.


03:42
To understand why, all you really have to do is think about the shape of a lightbulb. The lightbulb, for all practical purposes, is more or less round. This is great for its original intended purpose of lighting up the indoors. You turn it on, light goes everywhere. An individual light bulb can light up your whole room, more or less. Now, that's great if you're lighting the indoors, but in its application in outdoor lighting, that traditional shape of the light bulb, the sort of globe that spreads light everywhere, is actually very inefficient. When you're outdoors, mostly what you care about is lighting the ground beneath you and your immediate surroundings. All of that light that gets scattered outwards and upwards doesn't actually help you light the area around you. What it does is scatters up into the sky and becomes what we call "light pollution." Even if you don't care anything about stargazing, this should worry you, because it means that 60-70% of the energy we use to light the outdoors is wasted by blotting out the stars.


04:45
Now, like I said, I'm a big fan of technology. Obviously, I use technology every day; I'm a scientist. And there's this tendency to say that it's progress that -- you know, I'm not suggesting we're going to all go live by candlelight. Indeed, technology is allowing us to access the sky in ways that are impossible otherwise. One of the greatest examples of this is, of course, the Hubble Space Telescope. The Hubble went up into space, it returns pictures daily, and it allows us to see things that we are incapable of seeing with our naked eye, in ways that we've never been able to do before in all of human history. Other examples of this would be planetarium shows. In the past couple of years, planetarium shows have become more high-tech with these great visualizations, and even though this isn't access directly to the sky, it's at least access to our knowledge about the sky. And indeed, we can experience the sky in a planetarium in a way that is impossible for us to do just sitting out and looking in the dark.


05:48
All of you have heard of the Hubble Space Telescope and of planetariums. But there are also ways for technology to enable participation in people's experience of the sky that you may not be familiar with. These are called "citizen science projects." Citizen science is when large research projects put their data online, teach ordinary people, like you, to go and interact with that data and actually contribute to the research by making interesting or necessary characterizations about it.


06:17
One such example of this is what I'm showing here, called "Galaxy Zoo." Galaxy Zoo is a project where people get a 20-minute -- even less than that, actually -- tutorial on how to interact with these images of galaxies. They learn to annotate the images, and within a couple of minutes, they're up and running, and they're making really useful categorizations and classifications of these galaxies. Now, it's easy to understand why Galaxy Zoo would be an easy sell for people to be involved with: it involves pretty pictures; galaxies are, generally speaking, pretty attractive. However, there are many other flavors of citizen science projects that people have delved into that have varying levels of abstraction, that you wouldn't necessarily think people would jump at.


07:03
One such example of this is the citizen science project associated with the mission that I'm part of, called the Kepler Mission. Kepler is a space telescope and it looks for planets around other stars by measuring the light from those stars very precisely. And we're looking for the dimmings caused by stars blocking off some of that light. We have an associated citizen science project called "Planet Hunters." Planet Hunters gives you, like Galaxy Zoo, a short tutorial, and within a couple of minutes, you're up and running; you're looking at data from the Kepler Mission and looking for planets. The idea behind this is an easy sell, right? But the actual process of planet-hunting involves a lot of looking at graphs, like the one I'm showing you here, and annotating them. I do this all day and that doesn't even sound that interesting to me. However, not only are people interested in doing this, but the citizen scientists that work with Planet Hunters have actually found planets in the data that would have gone undiscovered otherwise.


08:09
This is an author list from the paper that they published of the planet they discovered. You'll see that all the people who contributed are listed below, and it's sort of an odd amalgam of people's real names and their log-in names. You'll notice if you look carefully, this is the first academic acknowledgment of the importance of Irish coffee in the discovery process.


08:29
(Laughter)


08:30
I don't want to give you the idea that these are some out-of-work scientists or just a bunch of nerds that are really into this. There are 60,000 people who participate in these projects, and most of them don't have technical backgrounds. So clearly, what this is feeding into is people's curiosity and their willingness to be part of the scientific discovery process. People want to do this.


08:53
But all of this technology and all these digitally mediated ways of experiencing the sky still have something of a feel to me like looking at an animal in a zoo. It's a valid way of experiencing that thing -- indeed, the lion in the cage is still real, the Hubble images are indeed real, and you can get closer to a lion in a zoo than you can in the wild. However, it's missing something. It's missing that savage beauty of experiencing that very thing in the wild for yourself, unmediated by a screen.


09:29
The experience of looking up and knowing that the sky you're looking at surrounds every known living thing in the universe is very profound. Think about that for a moment. We are the only planet we know of that has life on it. The sky that you see is shared by every other living thing that we know of in existence. One of the things that I really like about my work is that it allows me to step back from my every day and to experience the larger context, this feeling that just as we go out and try to find planets in the universe that might be like ours, it always reminds me of how precious what we have here is. Our night sky is like a natural resource, it's as though it's a park that you can visit without ever having to travel there. But like any natural resource, if we don't protect it, if we don't preserve it and treasure it, it will slip away from us and be gone.


10:32
So if you're interested in this, and this is something you want to learn more about, I encourage you in particular to visit darksky.org and to learn more about the choices you can make that can protect the dark night sky, because it belongs to everyone, it belongs to all of us, and therefore, it's ours to experience as we wish. And it's also ours to lose.


10:53
Thank you.


10:54
(Applause)

https://www.ted.com/talks/nancy_duarte_the_secret_structure_of_great_talks

00:00
It's really, really great to be here. You have the power to change the world. I’m not saying that to be cliché, you really have the power to change the world. Deep inside of you, every single one of you has the most powerful device known to man. And that's an idea.


00:17
So a single idea, from the human mind, it could start a groundswell, it could be a flash point for a movement and it can actually rewrite our future.


00:27
But an idea is powerless if it stays inside of you. If you never pull that idea out for others to contend with, it will die with you. Now, maybe some of you guys have tried to convey your idea and it wasn't adopted, it was rejected, and some other mediocre or average idea was adopted. And the only difference between those two is in the way it was communicated. Because if you communicate an idea in a way that resonates, change will happen, and you can change the world.


00:55
In my family, we collect these vintage European posters. Every time we go to Maui, we go to the dealer there, and he turns these great big posters. I love them. They all have one idea and one really clear visual that conveys the idea. They are about the size of a mattress. They're really big. They're not as thick as a mattress, but they're big. And the guy will tell the story as he turns the pages. And this one time I was flanked by my two kids and he turns the page and this poster is underneath, and right when I lean forward and say, "Oh my God, I love this poster," both of my kids jumped back and they are like, "Oh my God, mom, it's you." And this is the poster.


01:29
(Laughter)


01:30
See, I'm like "Fire it up!"


01:33
The thing I loved about this poster was the irony. Here's this chick all fired up, headed into battle -- as the standard bearer -- and she's holding these little Suavitos baking spices, like something so seemingly insignificant, though she's willing to risk, you know, life and limb to promote this thing.


01:50
So if you are to swap out those little Suavitos baking spices with a presentation -- Yeah, it's me, pretty fired up. I was fired up about presentations back when it wasn't cool to be fired up about presentations. I really think they have the power to change the world when you communicate effectively through them. And changing the world is hard. It won't happen with just one person with one single idea. That idea has got to spread, or it won't be effective. So it has to come out of you and out into the open for people to see. And the way that ideas are conveyed the most effectively is through story.


02:26
You know, for thousands of years, illiterate generations would pass on their values and their culture from generation to generation, and they would stay intact. So there's something kind of magical about a story structure that makes it so that when it's assembled, it can be ingested and then recalled by the person who's receiving it.


02:44
So basically a story, you get a physical reaction; your heart can race, your eyes can dilate, you could talk about, "Oh, I got a chill down my spine" or, "I could feel it in the pit of my stomach." We actually physically react when someone is telling us a story. So even though the stage is the same, a story can be told, but once a presentation is told, it completely flatlines. And I wanted to figure out why.


03:06
Why is it that we physically sit with rapt attention during a story, but it just dies for a presentation. So I wanted to figure out, how do you incorporate story into presentations. So we've had thousands of presentations back at the shop -- hundreds of thousands of presentations, actually, so I knew the context of a really bad presentation. I decided to study cinema and literature, and really dig in and figure out what was going on and why it was broken.


03:30
So, I want to show you some of the findings that led up to what I've uncovered as a presentation form.


03:38
So it was obvious to start with Aristotle, he had a three-act structure, a beginning, a middle and an end. We studied poetics and rhetoric, and a lot of presentations don't even have that in its most simple form. And then when I moved on to studying hero archetypes, I thought, "OK, the presenter is the hero, they're up on the stage, they're the star of the show." It's easy to feel, as the presenter, that you're the star of the show. I realized right away, that that's really broken. Because I have an idea, I can put it out there, but if you guys don't grab that idea and hold it as dear, the idea goes nowhere and the world is never changed. So in reality, the presenter isn't the hero, the audience is the hero of our idea.


04:14
So if you look at Joseph Campbell's hero's journey, just in the front part, there were some really interesting insights there. So there is this likable hero in an ordinary world, and they get this call to adventure. So the world is kind of brought out of balance. And at first they're resistant. They're like, "I don't know if I want to jump into this," and then a mentor comes along and helps them move from their ordinary world into a special world. And that's the role of the presenter. It's to be the mentor. You're not Luke Skywalker, you're Yoda. You're the one that actually helps the audience move from one thing and into your new special idea, and that's the power of a story. So in its most simple structure, it's a three-part structure of a story. You have a likable hero who has a desire, they encounter a roadblock and ultimately they emerge, transform, and that's the basic structure.


05:02
But it wasn't until I came across a Gustav Freytag's pyramid -- he drew this shape in 1863. Now, he was a German dramatist ... he was a German dramatist and he believed there is a five-act structure, which has an exposition, a rising action, a climax, a falling action and a denouement, which is the unraveling or the resolution of the story. I love this shape. So we talk about shapes. A story has an arc -- well, an arc is a shape. We talk about classical music having a shapeliness to it. So I thought, hey, if presentations had a shape, what would that shape be? And how did the greatest communicators use that shape, or do they use a shape?


05:41
So I'll never forget, it was a Saturday morning. After all this study -- it was a couple of years of study -- I drew a shape. And I was like, "Oh my gosh, if this shape is real, I should be able to take two completely different presentations and overlay it, and it should be true."


05:55
So I took the obvious, I took Martin Luther King's "I Have a Dream" speech, and I took Steve Jobs' 2007 iPhone launch speech, I overlaid it over it, and it worked. I sat in my office, just astounded. I actually cried a little, because I was like, "I've been given this gift," and here it is, this is the shape of a great presentation. Isn't it amazing?


06:16
(Laughter)


06:17
I was crying. I want to walk you through it, it's pretty astounding. There is a beginning, a middle and an end, and I want to walk you through it. Because the greatest communicators -- I went through speeches, everything -- I can overlay the shape. Even the Gettysburg Address follows the shape.


06:31
At the beginning of any presentation, you need to establish what is. You know, here's the status quo, here's what's going on. And then you need to compare that to what could be. You need to make that gap as big as possible, because there is this commonplace of the status quo, and you need to contrast that with the loftiness of your idea. So it's like, you know, here's the past, here's the present, but look at our future. Here's a problem, but look at that problem removed. Here's a roadblock, let's annihilate the roadblock. You need to really amplify that gap. This would be like the inciting incident in a movie. That's when suddenly the audience has to contend with what you just put out there: "Wow, do I want to agree with this and align with it or not?" And in the rest of your presentation should support that.


07:15
So the middle goes back and forth, it traverses between what is and what could be, what is and what could be. Because what you are trying to do is make the status quo and the normal unappealing, and you're wanting to draw them towards what could be in the future with your idea adopted.


07:30
Now, on your way to change the world, people are going to resist. They're not going to be excited, they may love the world the way it is. So you'll encounter resistance. That's why you have to move back and forth. It's similar to sailing. When you're sailing against the wind and there is wind resistance, you have to move your boat back and forth, and back and forth. That's so you can capture the wind. You have to actually capture the resistance coming against you when you're sailing. Now interesting, if you capture the wind just right and you set your sail just right, your ship will actually sail faster than the wind itself. It is a physics phenomenon. So by planting in there the way they're going to resist between what is and what can be, is actually going to draw them towards your idea quicker than should you not do that.


08:10
So after you've moved back and forth between what is and what could be, the last turning point is a call to action, which every presentation should have, but at the very end. You need to describe the world as a new bliss. "This is utopia with my idea adopted." "This is the way the world is going to look, when we join together and we solve this big problem." You need to use that as your ending, in a very poetic and dramatic way. So, interestingly, when I was done, I was like, "You know what? I could use this as an analysis tool."


08:39
I actually transcribe speeches, and I would actually map out, how much they map to this tool. So I want to show you some of that today, and I want to start with the very two people that I used when I first did.


08:50
Here's Mr. Jobs, has completely changed the world. Changed the world of personal computing, changed the music industry and now he's on his way to change the mobile device industry. So he's definitely changed the world. And this is the shape of his iPhone launch 2007, when he launched his iPhone.


09:05
It's a 90-minute talk and you can see he starts with what is, traverses back and forth and ends with what could be. So I want to zoom in on this: the white line is him speaking, he's talking. The next color line you'll see popped up there, that's when he cuts to video. So he's adding some variety and he cuts to demo. So it's not just him talking the whole time. And these lines are representative there. And then towards the end you'll see a blue line, which will be the guest speaker.


09:32
So this is where it gets kind of interesting: every tick mark here is when he made them laugh. And every tick mark here is when he made them clap. They are so involved physically, they are physically reacting to what he is saying, which is actually fantastic, because then you know you have the audience in your hand. So he kicks off what could be with, "This is a day I've been looking forward to for two and a half years." So he is launching a product that he's known about already for a couple of years. So this is not a new product to him.


10:00
But look at this, he does this other thing: he marvels. He marvels at his own product. He marvels himself more than the audience laughs or claps. So he is like, "Isn't this awesome? Isn't this beautiful?" He is modeling for the audience what he wants them to feel. So he is actually doing a job of compelling them to feel a certain way. So he kicks off with what could be with, "Every once in a while, a revolutionary product comes along that changes everything." So he starts to kick in and talk about his new product.


10:28
Now, at the beginning of it, he actually keeps the phone off. You'll see that the line is pretty white up until this point, so he goes off between, "Here's this new phone, and here's the sucky competitors. Here's this new phone, and here's the sucky competitors." And then, right about here, he has the star moment -- and that something we'll always remember. He turns the phone on. The audience sees scrolling for the first time, you can hear the oxygen sucked out of the room. They gasped. You can actually hear it. So he creates a moment that they'll always remember.


10:57
So if we move along this model, you can see the blue, where the external speakers are going, and towards the bottom right, the line breaks. That's because his clicker broke. He wants to keep this heightened sense of excitement. He tells a personal story, right there, where the technology didn't work. So he's the master communicator, and he turns to story to keep the audience involved.


11:16
So the top right he ends with the new bliss. He leaves them with the promise that Apple will continue to build revolutionary new products. And he says, "There's an old Wayne Gretzky quote that I love: 'I skate to where the puck is going to be, not to where it has been.' We've always tried to do that at Apple since the very beginning and we always will." So he ends with the new bliss.


11:37
So let's look at Mr. King. He was an amazing visionary, a clergyman who spent his life working hard for equality. And this is the shape of the "I Have a Dream" speech.


11:46
You can see he starts with what is, moves back and forth between what is and what could be, and ends with a very poetic new bliss, which is the famous part we all know. So I'm going to spread it out a little bit here, stretch it for you, and what I'm doing here is I put the actual transcript there along with the text. I know you can't read it. But at the end of every line break, I broke the line, because he took a breath and he paused.


12:09
Now he was a Southern Baptist preacher, most people hadn't heard that, so he had a real cadence and a rhythm that was really new for people there. So I want to cover up these lines of text with a bar because I want to use this bar as an information device here.


12:21
So let's walk through how he actually spoke to the people. The blue bars here are going to be when he used the actual rhetorical device of repetition. So he was repeating himself, he was using the same words and phrases, so people could remember and recall them. But then he also used a lot of metaphors and visual words. This was a way to take really complicated ideas and make them memorable and knowledgeable, so people got it. He actually created very -- almost like scenes with his words to make it so they could envision what he was saying.


12:51
And then there were also a lot of familiar songs and scriptures that he used. This is just the front end of it that you're seeing. And then he also made a lot of political references of the promises that were made to the people.


13:02
So if we look at the very first end of what is, at the very end of what is was the very first time that people actually clapped and roared really loud. So the end of what is what he did is he said, "America has given the Negro people a bad check, a check which has come back marked insufficient funds." Well, everyone knows what it's like to not have money in your account. So he used the metaphor people were very familiar with. But when they really charged up, the very first time they really screamed was: "So we have come to cash this check, a check that will give us upon demand the riches of freedom and the security of justice." That's when they really clapped. It was when he compared what currently is to what could be.


13:38
So when we move along a little farther in the model, you'll see it goes back and forth at a more frenzied pace. And this is when he goes back and forth, and back and forth. Now the audience was in a frenzy. They were all excited, and so you can actually do this to keep them in a heightened sense of excitement. So he says, "I have a dream that one day this nation will rise up and live out the meaning of its creed. 'We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men are created equal.'" So he uses the little orange text there to remind them of the promise that the politicians had made to him or that this country had made. Then he moves back and forth between "I have a dream that one day, I have a dream that one day, I have a dream that one day," and at the end, it gets really interesting. Because he uses -- you can look at the four shades of green, there's a lot of blue there, which was a lot of repetition -- he had a heightened sense of repetition.


14:27
And the green was a heightened sense of songs and scriptures. So the first batch of green was the actual scripture from the Book of Isaiah. The second batch of green was "My Country, 'Tis of Thee." Now, that's a familiar song that was specifically very significant for the black people at the time, because this song was the song they chose to change the words to as an outcry, saying that promises had not been kept. So the third batch of green was actually a stanza from "My Country, 'Tis of Thee." And then the fourth was a Negro spiritual. "Free at last! Free at last! Thank God Almighty, I'm free at last!"


14:59
So what he did is he actually reached inside of the hearts of the audience. He pulled from scriptures, which is important. He pulled from songs that they'd sung together as an outcry against this outrage, and he used those as a device to connect and resonate with the audience. Ending -- painting a picture of this new bliss, using the very things inside of them that they already held as sacred.


15:21
So he was a great man. He had a big, big dream. There's a lot of people here, you guys have really big dreams. You have really big ideas inside of you that you need to get out. But you know what? We encounter hardships. It's not easy to change the world; it's a big job. You know he was -- his house was bombed, he was stabbed with a letter opener, ultimately, he lost his life, you know, for what he cared about. But a lot of us aren't going to be required to pay that kind of sacrifice. But what happens is that it basically is a little bit like that basic story structure. Life can be like that.


15:52
You know, you guys are all likable people, you have a desire, you encounter roadblocks, and we stop there. We're just like, you know, "I had this idea, but I'm not going to put it out there. It's been rejected." You know, we self-sabotage our own ideas, we just butt up against the roadblocks and butt up against the roadblocks instead of choosing to let the struggle transform us and choosing to go ahead and have a dream and make it real. And you know, if anyone -- if I can do this, anybody can do this.


16:22
I was raised in an economically and emotionally starved environment. First time I got to go to a camp with my sister, I was abused. Wasn't the first time I was abused, it was just the most aggressive. And my mom and dad -- they married each other three times,


16:36
(Audience murmurs)


16:37
Yeah, that was tumultuous, and when they weren't fighting they were helping sober up some alcoholic that was living with us because they were both sober alcoholics. So my mom abandoned us when I was sixteen years old. And I took on a role of caretaker of my home and of my siblings. And I married. I met a man. Fell in love. I went to a year of college. I did what every single, bright, young girl should do -- I got married when I was eighteen years old.


17:01
And you know what? I knew, I knew that I was born for more than this. And right at the point in the story of my life I had a choice. I could let all these things push me down and I could let all my ideas die inside of me. I could just say, you know, life is too hard to change the world. It's just too tough. But I chose a different story for my life.


17:22
(Laughter)


17:24
Don't you know it? And so I feel like there's people in this room -- you got those little Suavitos baking spices and you're just like, "You know, It's not that big a deal." "It's really not the whole world I can change." But you know, you can change your world. You can change your life. You can change the world that you have control over, you can change your sphere. I want to encourage you to do that. Because you know what? The future isn't a place that we're going to go. It's a place that you get to create.


17:53
I want to thank you. Bless you. God bless you.


17:56
(Applause)

https://www.ted.com/talks/aleph_molinari_let_s_bridge_the_digital_divide

00:01
The digital divide is a mother that's 45 years old and can't get a job, because she doesn't know how to use a computer. It is an immigrant that doesn't know that he can call his family for free. It is a child who can't resolve his homework, because he doesn't have access to information. The digital divide is a new illiteracy. "Digital divide" is also defined as: the gap between individuals and communities that have access to information technologies and those that don't.


00:27
Why does this happen? It happens because of 3 things. The first is that people can't get access to these technologies because they can't afford them. The second is because they don't know how to use them. The third is because they don't know the benefits derived from technology. So let's consider some very basic statistics. The population of the world is nearly seven billion people. Out of these, approximately two billion are digitally included. This is approximately 30% of the entire world population, which means that the remaining 70% of the world -- close to five billion people -- do not have access to a computer or the internet. Let's think about that number for a second. Five billion people; that's four times the population of India, that have never touched a computer, have never accessed the internet. So this is a digital abyss that we're talking about, this is not a digital divide.


01:19
Here we can see a map by Chris Harrison that shows the internet connections around the world. What we can see is that most of the internet connections are centered on North America and Europe, while the rest of the world is engulfed in the dark shadow of digital divide. Next, we can see connections, city-to-city, around the world, and we can see that most of the information generated is being generated between North America and Europe, while the rest of the world is not broadcasting their ideas or information. So what does this mean? We are living in a world that seems to be having a digital revolution, a revolution that everyone here thinks that we're part of, but the 70% of the world that is digitally excluded is not part of this.


02:02
What does this mean? Well, the people that will be digitally excluded won't be able to compete in the labor markets of the future, they won't be connected, they'll be less informed, they'll be less inspired and they'll be less responsible. Internet should not be a luxury, it should be a right, because it is a basic social necessity of the 21st century. We can't operate without it.


02:22
(Applause)


02:25
Thank you.


02:26
It allows us to connect to the world. It empowers us. It gives us social participation. It is a tool for change. And so, how are we going to bridge this digital divide? Well, there are many models that try and bridge the digital divide, that try and include the population at large. But the question is: Are they really working?


02:49
I'm sure everybody here knows One Laptop per Child, where one computer is given to one child. The problem with this is, do we really want children to take computers to their homes, homes that have adverse conditions? And we also must understand that by giving a child a computer, we're also transferring costs, very high costs, such as internet connection, electricity, maintenance, software, updates. So we must create different models, models that help the families rather than add a burden on them. Also, let's not forget about the carbon footprint. Imagine five billion laptops. What would the world look like then? Imagine the hazardous residue that would be generated from that. Imagine the trash. So if we give one computer to one person, and we multiply that times five billion, even if that laptop is a hundred dollars, then we would have 483 trillion dollars. Now let's consider we're only counting the youth, ages 10 to 24. That's approximately 30% of the digitally excluded population. Then that would be 145 trillion dollars. What nation has this amount of money? This is not a sustainable model.


04:02
So with this in mind, we created a different model. We created the RIA, in Spanish, or in English, Learning and Innovation Network, which is a network of community centers that bring education through the use of technology. We wanted to increase the number of users per computer in such a way that we could dilute the cost of infrastructure, the cost per user, and that we could bring education and technology to everybody within these communities.


04:26
Let's look at a basic comparison. The RIA has 1,650 computers. If we had used the One Laptop per Child model of a 1 to 1 ratio, then we would have benefited 1,650 users. What we did instead is set up centers that have longer hours of operation than schools, that also include all of the population -- our youngest user is 3 years old, the oldest is 86 -- and with this, in less than two years, we were able to reach 140,000 users, out of which --


05:01
(Applause)


05:02
Thank you.


05:04
out of which, 34,000 have already graduated from our courses.


05:08
Another thing with One Laptop per Child is that it doesn't guarantee the educational use of a computer. Technology is nothing without that content. We need to use it as a means, not as an end. How did we accomplish such a high impact? Well, you can't just go into a community and pretend to change it, you need to look at a lot of factors. So what we do is a thing we call "urban acupuncture." We first start by looking at the basic geography of a site. So take, for example, Ecatepec. This is one of the most densely populated municipalities in Mexico. It has a very low income level. So we look at the basic geography, we look at roads, streets, the flux of pedestrians and vehicles. Then we look at income, we look at education. Then we set up a center there in the place that's going to heal the body, a little needle to change the city body. And there we go.


06:05
And so, there are four basic elements that we need to consider when we're using education through technology. The first one is we need to create spaces. We need to create a space that is welcoming to the community, a space that is according to the needs of the children and of the elders and of every possible person that lives within that community. So we create these spaces that are all made with recycled materials. We use modular architecture to lower the ecological impact.


06:37
And second, connection. By connection, I mean not only a connection to the internet, that's too easy. We need to create a connection that's an interconnection of humans. The internet is a very complex organism that is fueled of the ideas, the thoughts and the emotions of human beings. We need to create networks that aid in exchanging information.


07:03
Third, content. Education is nothing without content. And you can't pretend to have a relationship of only a computer with a child. So we create a route, a very basic learning route, where we teach people how to use a computer, how to use the internet, how to use office software, and in 72 hours, we create digital citizens. You can't pretend that people are just going to touch a computer and become digitally included, you need to have a process. And after this, then they can take on a longer educational route.


07:34
And then fourth, training. We need to train not only the users, but we need to train the people that will facilitate learning for these people. When you're talking about the digital divide, people have stigmas, people have fears; people don't understand how it can complement their lives. So what we do is train facilitators so that they can help in breaking that digital barrier.


07:59
So, we have four elements: we have a space that's created, we have a connection, we have content and we have training. We have created a digital learning community. But there is one more element, which is the benefits that technology can create, because it is not printed, static content. It is dynamic; it is modifiable. So we have we do is, we provide content, then we do training, then we analyze the user patterns so that we can improve content. So it creates a virtuous circle. It allows us to deliver education according to different types of intelligence and according to different user needs. With this in mind, we have to think that technology is something that can modify according to human processes.


08:46
I want to share a story. In 2006, I went to live here. This is one of the poorest communities in all of Mexico. I went to film a documentary on the people that live off trash, entirely of trash -- their houses are built with trash, they eat trash, they dress in trash. And after two months of living with them, of seeing the children and the way they work, I understood that the only thing that can change and that can break the poverty cycle is education. And we can use technology to bring education to these communities. Here is another shot.


09:19
The main message is that technology is not going to save the world; we are, and we can use technology to help us. I'm sure everybody here has experienced it; what moves technology is human energy. So let's use this energy to make the world a better place.


09:37
Thank you.


09:38
(Applause)

https://www.ted.com/talks/michelle_borkin_can_astronomers_help_doctors

00:00
I believe that we can both unravel the mysteries of the universe and save human lives at the same time through interdisciplinary research. And I'm going to share with you today just one story, my story, that has crossed these paths.


00:18
We start the in supernova remnant Cassiopeia A. It's one of the youngest ones in our galaxy, about 330 years old. An astronomy colleague approached me one day, and she had over eight years of magnificent data, just trying to understand the 3-D structure of this nebula, the supernova remnant. But she had no way to look at it. So I looked at the data with her and said, "I think I can help you." And although -- and this is all real data you're seeing on the screen above me -- this is the Hollywood rendering version, but the rough draft I made with her looks something more like this. And she was able to make novel discoveries about how supernovas explode and how shells explode within it, using a piece of software developed at Brigham and Women's Hospital here in Boston, called 3D Slicer. It was originally developed for looking at patients' brain scans, doing surgical planning and doing 3-D renderings of anatomy. Who knew our solution was lurking just across the river?


01:21
Now, people don't believe me when I tell them that astronomy and medical imaging -- these two seemingly different fields -- are really similar. So we're going to play a little game I like to call "Which is which?" I play this with new doctors and astronomers I work with. I'm going to show you two images on the screen. One of them is biomedical and one of them is astronomical, and you have to pick them correctly in your head. So here is the first set. And again, one of these is biomedical and one is astronomical. I'll give you a second to make your little vote mentally. So it turns out the one on the left is some of the raw data of the supernova remnant we were just looking at, and on the right, we have an angiogram of a patient's heart and coronary arteries.


02:07
OK, we're going to try another one. Now, this one is much closer to my daily bread and butter. Tell me which is which. And one of these is literally millimeters across, and the other is billions of miles. So, it turns out the one on the left is a confocal microscopy image of a human cornea, and on the right, we have a radio telescope image of the star-forming region NGC-1333. Now, aside from the fact that these images look similar and that doctors trying to find a tumor in a patient's brain or a young star forming is similar, the way the data comes from the machine or the telescope is remarkably similar.


02:48
Here's an MRI scanner. And if you've never seen the raw data of a patient's brain, this is what it looks like. When the MRI scanner is acquiring the data, it goes in slices. So you can see the patient's nose, their eyes; it kind of progresses towards the middle of the head; you can start to see the cortex, and it steps through to the back of the brain. Now, believe it or not, telescopes, and particularly radio telescopes, operate in a similar manner. If we were to look at the raw data from these telescopes ... We're going to look at a nebula called M16. We start with this radio telescope at the front of the nebula, stepping back towards the middle of the nebula, just like the middle of the patient's brain -- those bright regions are where young stars are forming -- all the way to the back of the nebula, just like the back of the patient's head. Now, although the doctors are able to then take this data and look at it in 3-D and do surgical planning, this is cutting-edge, just about as good as you get with any astronomer, and this is what they have to look at to understand the 3-D structure and velocity's momentum in our universe. But we can do better.


03:58
So, you might recognize this nebula more like this: the famous Hubble image of the Pillars of Creation or the Eagle Nebula. And, I'm going to fade this out onto a radio image, it's a false color in the background, and fade away the Hubble image you're used to. But we don't need to just look at this in 3-D, we can look at it in 2-D, and here I'm using a radiology tool kit called OsiriX.


04:22
When I showed this to astronomer Marc Pound, whose data this is, he was amazed, because he had been trying so hard to study the impact of a young group of stars. And he had this theory that there's this wind crashing and tossing the pillars over, and it took him months to prove this with conventional visualization. But in one shot, you can see the shock wave of wind blasting through across to the left-hand side of the screen. Now, I don't think myself or any of my collaborators would've anticipated how far this has gone, and by sharing the medical technology with astronomy and astronomy with medical, we've been able to find new stars and supernova remnants, and revolutionize how you do heart diagnostics and look at data for different patients and organize it and data-mine it.


05:08
I don't have time to show you all these great projects, but I'll show you one of them. This is a collaboration I've been working on, called The Multiscale Hemodynamics Project. I'm working with doctors at Brigham and Women's Hospital. Now, what this represents is a novel way of doing heart disease diagnostics. And instead of the conventional invasive angiography, this is just a CT scan. What you see here are the coronary arteries. So you have your heart, and the arteries wrap around the outside. These are the arteries you worry about getting blocked and giving you a heart attack and killing you. So it's really important that we look at them.


05:42
Now, this is a CT scan of a patient with a blood-flow simulation -- that's the coloring up there. That simulation was originally developed for studying the structure of DNA, and then the visualization was done with a tool kit called VisIt, originally developed for physics simulations. Interdisciplinary. My assignment was to try and come up with a new way of looking at this to make it optimal for the doctors and hospital: How can we make it the most efficient for them for a diagnosis?


06:12
And I came up with this image. It's 2-D; I took the whole artery and collapsed everything into a 2-D plane. I got some very quizzical looks when I showed this to the doctors originally. But I was inspired to do this representation from my astronomy work, where we've been using these tree diagrams along the bottom to understand the structure of nebulae. Well, we were inspired in that work from the bioinformatics and genome community, where they use these tree diagrams to understand their gene expression data. They were inspired by the evolutionary biologists, who use these tree diagrams to understand how species evolve and are related, the first of which was drawn by Sir Charles Darwin. Here's an example from his "Origin of the Species." So, straight from Darwin, through biology, physics, astronomy, back to medical imaging. Interdisciplinary. One may say, "Well, is this 2-D representation better?" I did a study at Harvard Medical School to answer just that question.


07:09
And it turns out, if you present the image on the left to a doctor, on average, they find about 39% of the high-risk regions that could explode or block your heart and kill you. On the right, we can do a little better, and they're able to find 62% of these high-risk, dangerous regions. But we can do even better, simply by changing the colors. The rainbow color map is a sin most doctors and astronomers and physicists are guilty of using. (Laughs) And it doesn't focus the best qualities of your visual system. The human system can see brightness variation, contrast ... not really good at that whole "green-yellow-blue" thing.


07:51
But now, if you look in the shades of red and highlight the regions that are most diseased with dark red, now doctors can find 91% of the high-risk regions, simply by changing the colors.


08:02
(Applause)


08:05
And I would have never known the importance of color if it was not for my computer science and visualization collaborators showing this to me. So again: interdisciplinary collaboration.


08:15
How do you even get a collaboration like this? In the case of astronomical medicine, it started with a Harvard Astronomy professor, Alyssa Goodman, serendipitously meeting a computer scientist and imaging specialist from Brigham and Woman’s Hospital, and their recruitment of a very adventurous, open-minded, young student. (Laughter) And from there, it has exploded: we've pulled in cardiologists and computer scientists and radiologists and astronomers, physicists, chemists, computational physicists -- I mean, we've brought so many people together. And it's been enlightening to share domains and information across borders. And we're still going. And although most of the people up on the screen are from Harvard or Harvard Med, now we cross different institutions and continents to work together.


09:01
All I can say is, it has just been wonderful. We're continuing to make new discoveries. And I just urge you: attend conferences not in your own domain, read books and journals not in your own discipline, watch TED talks and come to events like this and say hi to the neighbor sitting next to you, because you really never know where your next great idea is going to come from.


09:24
Thank you.


09:25
(Applause)

https://www.ted.com/talks/david_damberger_what_happens_when_an_ngo_admits_failure

00:01
Meet Inook. He's a pretty happy guy. And I'd be pretty happy, too, if this was the first time my community had just gained access to fresh water. Inook is from the country of Malawi, the small sliver of a country in Southern Africa, known as "The Warm Heart of Africa." Over the past 10 years, five million more people like Inook in Malawi have gained access to fresh water. But what's unfortunate is that this picture is a lie. I'll come back to that in a second.


00:31
Ten years ago, two Waterloo engineers sparked a movement across Canada, "Engineers Without Borders." This movement was based on the concept that it was completely unacceptable that 5 million people in Malawi did not have access to fresh water, when us engineers back in Canada were working on problems such as making a photocopier increase its speed from 149 pages a minute to 151 pages per minute. We needed to work on problems that mattered. I was fortunate, I founded the Calgary chapter here. I got to be the first director of overseas programs for Engineers Without Borders in Africa, where I worked for four years. And I got to work with hundreds of businesses, non-government organizations, governments, all working in this field of development. It was really fantastic working for Engineers Without Borders because even though we worked on hundred-million-dollar projects, we had this philosophy that if we were really going to understand the problems in local Africa, we needed to live like local Africans. So, as a lot of ex-patriots would spend most of the time in the capital cities and boardrooms, we'd spend our time in villages learning local languages, traveling on public transports.


01:35
And what this allowed us to do was to get a really deep understanding of what was going on at the field level. Combined with this experience and hundreds of other Engineers Without Borders experiences, we got a really interesting perspective of what's going on in this aid industry. The aid industry has gotten a lot of attention lately. A lot of economists have become authors and have written about it. There's a lot of controversy about its effectiveness, some even asking the question, "Has aid failed?" It's a very interesting question. Now, I can confidently say on behalf of Engineers Without Borders staff members that, failed or not, we definitely feel that the aid system is broken. And when I say broken, I'm not talking about what the media usually talks about. It's not about corrupt dictators or about corruption. Those issues still happen in Africa, but they're much more the minority than they are the mainstream today. I'm talking about aid being broken in democratically elected, stable governments with no civil unrest, countries like Ghana, Malawi and Zambia.


02:35
So, I talked about Malawi. The World Bank has stated that 80% of the people in Malawi have access to fresh water sources. So one of our staff members in Malawi, this is Owen, was visiting one of those water points. It was a gravity-fed system that was commissioned by the Canadian government and finished about a year and a half ago. A gravity-fed system basically is a bunch of pipes that pipe water down from an elevated region down into a number of communities where there are taps, and people can access that water. And he was going around turning on some of those taps, and some weren't working. So he asked the community, "How many of these aren't working?" And they said, "Well, out of 113, 81." 81? What's the problem? What's going on?


03:17
He found out that a lot of the pipes had sprung leaks and broken down. All right, not a big deal, pipes break down everywhere. But the problem with this project was that, even though the infrastructure was built, there was no thinking about who was going to maintain the system. Some people really took initiative and tried to fix the pipes themselves, but there was a lack of affordable spare parts available. This situation is typical. This is a graphic showing one area of Malawi, I think it's an urban area, where the green dots are functional water points, yellow, are ones that are working but breaking down, and red are not functional. Hardly eighty percent. Actually, Engineers Without Borders has done some work and found out that even though there's 80% coverage of water points, 40% are not working. See, this issue is ... A lot of donors and projects end up focusing on the hardware side of the issue and not really realizing the importance of the software side of things. At first it's like, software -- of course you have to do maintenance. But when you think about it as people donating to charities, it makes you feel a lot better if you know that your money went to something tangible, something like a well, something like a school, something like giving a family a goat. It's not as sexy and easy to tell your friends about how you helped fund a water committee or paid for teacher salaries. So when I say that this picture of Inook is a lie, it's not a lie when the picture is taken. It only becomes a lie a year or two afterwards.


04:52
When looking at these pictures, one of my great colleagues said, "Everything people see from Africa doesn't matter. And everything that matters from Africa, people don't get to see." And this problem goes a lot further that just broken down water points. Owen, after seeing this water point, discovered not more than 30 feet away: "Hey there's another set of taps that look really broken down, too, but they're not attached to the system." And he asked the community, "What's that?" They said: "Oh, that's the American government gravity-fed water system." It was built over ten years ago. He said, "What happened to that?" They said, "Oh, it also broke down about a year and a half later." How is it that a project that failed ten years ago was rebuilt with almost the same technology, same process, and had exactly the same failure ten years later?


05:42
I've recently joined a start-up company that sells goods online, a lot of them from Africa, fair-trade goods -- it's sort of like the ethical eBay or Amazon. And what we've learned being a private sector start-up is, if we don't serve our customers and we don't provide them the product they need, they won't buy it. And then if we don't innovate, change and adapt to their needs, we go out of business. They have a power to hold us accountable. If we look to the public sector, it doesn't adapt and change quite as fast as the private sector, but at the end of the day, if the elected government doesn't meet the needs of its constituents, they have a chance to vote them out of power, therefore holding them accountable.


06:18
But in the development sector, if they don't serve the needs of their beneficiaries -- and they're not just NGOs, but governments and businesses as well -- the beneficiaries have no power to vote them out or to fire them. The people who have that power are the donors. And when you look at the system, you can see some of the challenges. Development is the sector that focuses more on pleasing the donors and making them happy and communicating to them, as opposed to understanding the needs of the beneficiaries. Because of that, systematic challenge is very slow to innovate, there's very little change, and you get exactly the same project built ten years later that fails in exactly the same way.


06:52
So what we do about this? First answer is easy: we invest in the private and public sectors in the developing world. They're inherently structurally built to be more sustainable and to allow beneficiaries to hold them accountable. However, 70% of people in sub-Saharan Africa still make less than two dollars a day and are still in poverty. And a lot of that reason is because the private and the public sector are not serving them appropriately. So we do need to invest in businesses and governments in Africa, but it's still going to take a long time for the problems to be fixed. Therefore, that leaves us with one option and we need to work with this system. Therefore, we have to fix it.


07:27
We need to make it more accountable, more creative and more transparent. We need to start innovating, coming up with really neat ideas -- ideas like giving beneficiaries a chance to rate their projects using their mobile phones -- that donors and NGOs can understand. Or moving our donors closer to our beneficiaries. Currently, only 20% of the Canadian International Development Agency's African staff are based in Africa. Ideas like funding development sectors like VCs fund businesses: What would it be like if a donor funded ten projects and expected four of them to do OK, one of them to do fantastic and five of them to fail? And not all of the solutions need to be that complex. Engineers Without Borders is working on one that's actually quite simple; it's admitting failure.


08:14
My first project with Engineers Without Borders was in India. I worked with a bunch of schools, the poorest schools in India, the untouchable caste. This is Bani, she was a girl who was in one of those schools and she and her classmates had to spend two to three hours a day walking to collect water to bring it back to the school so they could have fresh water to drink and for cooking and for going to the bathroom. My job in Engineers Without Borders was to help solve the problem. I worked with the communities; we came up with rainwater harvesting solutions to collect water from the rooftops during the monsoons, bring it through gutters, filter and store it for the dry season. I worked there for a number of months, and by the time I left, we had the project funded and being implemented. I returned back home to Canada almost a hero. My friends and family were like, "Wow, that's fantastic! You gave up your job in the oil and gas sector to go volunteer in India. That's really inspiring."


09:03
A year later, I contacted my NGO to see how everything was going with the rainwater harvesting systems. And they told me that not a single one was still operating. The reason was because a lot of them had been built, but some of them had broken down because there was no maintenance schedule put in place. I had made the exact same mistake that I criticized earlier. When I thought of my friends and family back home who thought I was such a hero, I felt like an impostor. I thought of Bani, I didn't help her at all.


09:41
Admitting failure is actually quite hard, and I didn't tell many people about this. And one of the only things that helped me feel better about this -- and it's a bit of a shame to say this — was that I started to learn that other people in Engineers Without Borders had failed, too. But Engineers Without Borders has this culture of embracing failure openly and letting us talk about it. And it was only through a bunch of us talking about failure that we really got to see we're making a lot of mistakes, and we're making the same mistakes and can learn from them. And we started to innovate and change.


10:12
Engineers Without Borders is drastically different now, 10 years later than what we thought Engineers should be doing in development. We don't build water points anymore; in fact, we don't build anything other than spreadsheets. We now have this innovative marketing campaign, "Sponsor an African spreadsheet," because we understand that the problems are not hardware problems; it's all about that software side of things. But it's a hard concept to get across to people; they want to fund wells and schools. But it's really about the software side of things, and it's a lot longer a process to fund those things. And it's not sexy, but it works. Our staff members were really exited to share this failure internally, but we still were not doing a good job of letting other people know. And some very courageous field staff were getting upset at the management because other projects were going to make the same failures; they weren't learning. So they pushed our management staff. And we were nervous publishing our failures, but for the last three years, Engineers Without Borders has published an annual failure report citing our biggest failures.


11:09
At first, I was asked, "What do your donors think?" and I think, "How would my donors feel if they knew the money they had spent and saved up and generously donated had had no impact?" And you know, that's tough. And our donors felt that, too. But once they started reading the failures, they understood the power of those lessons learned and realized it's an injustice not to be sharing these. Then we realized that not everyone reads reports, so we built a website, admittingfailure.com. This is for all organizations to come and start admitting their failures, and to start having a discussion about failure. The concept is catching on.


11:48
The Harvard Business Review, just last month, published their first review focused on failure. Two big companies lately have also dealt with failure. I talk to my friends in other sectors and they're like, "It's not just the development sector that has this challenge, it crosses into a lot of other sectors." Two companies had big failures lately. What's interesting about them is, one of them publicly admitted the failure and talked about what they learned from it and what they'll do next time. The other one kind of tried to not talk about it at all. It will be interesting looking forward to see which of those strategies works. I'd like to ask people to, first of all, think about: How does your organization think about and share failure? Maybe ask the person next to you, because I think it can generate some really interesting conversations.


12:34
And lastly, I'd like to turn back to this question, "Has aid failed?" I think I'll say that, for me, the answer is "Yes," but only because it hasn't failed enough.


12:46
Thank you.


12:47
(Applause)

https://www.ted.com/talks/klaus_stadlmann_the_world_s_smallest_3d_printer

00:01
Hello everybody, thanks for having me today. I'm a little bit injured, but it takes more than a car to stop me from talking to you.


00:09
(Laughter)


00:11
(Applause)


00:14
Maybe a tank?


00:18
So today, I want to talk about the microprinter, about my work, how everything started, what was my motivation to build the smallest 3-D printer in the world. Let's start with my daily business. So, my normal working field is called two-photon polymerization. It sounds very nerdy, it is very nerdy.


00:42
(Laughter)


00:44
What do you need for making this stuff? You need a complex laser system, a so-called femtosecond laser system, which you focus onto a very tiny spot -- very, very, very tiny -- and this is a very expensive, not very durable laser system. (Laughs) And on the other hand, you need a very complex positioning system. We call it "Agathe," because it's very heavy, and we thought Agathe was a nice name.


01:14
(Laughter)


01:16
And, well, you need this system to move the laser through, for example, at the very accurate level, about 200 nanometers, so very accurate. And, well, what can you do with that? You can do things that you cannot see with your eyes. So you can print out whatever you want, you can print out a tower bridge, you can print out Agathe's husband ...


01:38
(Laughter)


01:41
OK, but, what makes it so mind-blowing?


01:47
You maybe notice this scale bar, and it's 100 microns for the tower bridge and 20 microns for the fat man. For comparison, the diameter of a human hair is around 50 microns. So these objects are like a dust particle or even smaller, so you can hardly see them. What you can also do and what we are also working on is improving the system, improving the resins, the material we use for catching a worm or something else. Inside the resin, we move the laser through the resin, it gets polymerized, and we catch a living animal, here, a special worm. What we're trying to do, or what the next step would be, is to make biocompatible polymers and maybe to write some things inside your body or inside the body of a worm, or to attach cells to our structures, and so on.


02:52
But, OK, that's my normal working field. Today I want to tell the story behind the microprinter. What was my motivation? Well, everything started on Monday morning, 6:30. OK, that's a lie. Maybe it was 10 o'clock.


03:09
(Laughter)


03:10
I went to my laser lab, which is located near Karlsplatz, in Freihaus, at the Vienna University of Technology. I went in, and I saw that this laser system was broken, and I tried to fix it. It took me half a day, several hours. Then I noticed, OK, there is a major issue with the pump source. I cannot fix that myself; we have to call the service technician. And from that point on, I noticed I had time to think. So I thought, "What to do now? Maybe start to write my PhD thesis."


03:42
(Laughter)


03:44
No, no, not a good idea at all. So I started thinking, maybe write a scientific paper. Not a good idea at all. And then, on Saturday, after a week of thinking, I came up with the idea to build the smallest 3-D microprinter in the world.


04:01
(Laughter)


04:03
Or, the smallest 3-D printer in the world.


04:05
(Applause)


04:10
So I called my professor and told him about it.


04:14
"Hey, let's build the thing! I have time. Is it OK?"


04:17
"Go ahead, build it."


04:18
And so I went to the university, and from that point on, I just put everything out of my brain inside the computer to make this CAD construction of the whole thing. And after a few months, we had the first test run with the system. It worked brilliantly from the first test on, and it had the same resolution as systems which cost 60,000 euros, and we only spent 1,500 euros for the system, not including my salary, but that wouldn't add so much on its own.


04:54
(Laughter)


04:55
OK, how does this work?


04:57
I brought you a video where you can see how you can put in your three-dimensional file. This video was produced by a friend of mine, Junior Veloso. And you can see, you have a set stage which moves up. And under the set stage, there is a liquid, which gets solidified by the light. And slice by slice, you create the model, so you really pull it out of the liquid. And it just depends on how big your model is. Maybe you have 100 slices, 1,000 or 10,000 slices. So that's how it works. Of course, this is a much bigger machine than the microprinter, but it uses more or less the same principles, so that's what I want to show you. At the end, this head, this alien head, is attached to the building platform, and when the process is done, you just simply have to break the head from the support structure you need, and then everything is ready. So.


06:08
OK, but what does the microprinter look like? Well, maybe some of you have already seen this picture. I also brought it to you in person, so I want to kindly introduce you to the 3-D microprinter, which looks like this. So it's very small, it's really a desktop version. It's a really affordable system. And we are really proud of it, actually, and --


06:33
(Laughter)


06:37
And you have this tiny little system; there are bigger ones. What can you do with a cheap, affordable system? For example, you all know these hearing aids? They have to be produced individually for each person, so this is a perfect example for using this technology to create the shell for a hearing aid. Normally, you go to the store, they scan your ear, they send the data to Germany via email, and --


07:09
(Laughter)


07:10
and then they print it out with a --


07:13
(Applause)


07:14
Thank you.


07:15
(Applause)


07:20
Then they print it out with a big machine, and then, when it's ready to send back to Vienna or wherever you are -- via post -- then they put in the electronics.


07:33
When you have a microprinter in your store, you can go to the store, they scan your ear, they just press "Print," the 3-D model gets sliced, and you can go for a coffee, you can go to the university, whatever you want, and instead of five days, you can have your ear shell or your hearing aid in just one day. And that is an example of how these tiny little machines or other cheap 3-D printers could change our everyday lives.


08:08
So thank you very much, and start printing whatever you want, whatever you need.


08:13
(Applause)